you
I decided to make nocturnes the subject
to my first recording people love
nocturnes people love beautiful melodies
people love Chopin and array and greed
and it's important to play music that
people want to hear the Nocturne as a
form as a piece of music is about 200
years old and we credit John filled with
inventing it and really since then it's
about the same as it was it starts up
with a beautiful melody at the beginning
and it transitions into sometimes a
darker or a brighter middle section full
of virtuosity full of fireworks but
definitely a contrast
there are different types of listeners
out there there are the people who study
a classical recording who follow
classical music and follow them for
performers and there are people who
don't care about the performance they
just love the soft relaxing sounds that
nocturnes might provide and we're
talking about music that can be played
at dinner in the car or to fall asleep
on there are many different ways to
enjoy this music believe me I scoured
the earth for nocturnes I think I played
every single Nocturne ever written
including one by Stan Shinsky and this I
believe is the world premiere recording
of this it's out of print written in
1907 and said this will be a first
the challenge of reporting is making
sure that you're a spontaneous during
the recording session as you would be
during a lot concert doesn't always
happen and especially with nocturnes
because the the melodies are so flexible
and there's so many millions of ways to
play them to be on all the time is it is
definitely difficult on the way to the
studio they drop my dear you know about
six inches off the ground or so you know
they dropped it I heard that well about
six inches so right my house what you
probably standing right there yeah
talking about the drop yeah I was a
concern about that I said did anything
sound like you got hurt you guys know
it's I'm totally normal just a lot too
where did it get dropped on this corner
rounded corner yeah yeah yep can I
listen to per second yes
and I think opportunity even though
straight into that Thun it it probably
there's nothing radical it would say oh
plate cracks don't worry mm-hmm that's
always a concern is somewhere out of
struttin you get a hairline crack if it
really hit hard you know and I don't
hear anything like that so it was at the
hall for about a week and out of tune
and we had the halls piano versus my
piano and once my piano was tuned we
decided to go ahead and his mind John
we're using this pure this is my piano
you know excellent I owned it eight
years I think eight years but it I was
worried you know before it was tuned I
wasn't sure but after Stennis amazing
sounds really good yeah and I'm very
happy with it because it sounds it has
just a warm milk e sound I called my dad
and I said my next recording is going to
be 12 nocturnes he says 12 nocturnes in
a walls I said dead your jeans and the
walls on this reporting is called walls
for the loneliness written by Chet
Atkins who is no longer with us but he
was an amazing guitarist and this was
very simple waltz that was written in a
hotel room when he was in England for a
concert and I have played this as an
encore for years in a very simple way
and I decided for this recording that I
would make it into sort of a 1920s grand
romantic transcription and sort of like
gadomski or something without going all
the way into jazz so it teeters on that
but it doesn't quite go there so but
it's very difficult to susceptible
difficult
Robert Henry is not without facebook
let's see I'm inspired by the guy who
for he kissed his bride updated his
facebook status right before that any
wedding there we go it's official now I
should do her first where I actually
update my facebook status in the middle
of the piece in its on record you'd be
at first it absolutely because there's
some grand pauses in there you know this
believe it or not in the middle of the
recording itself i also updated the
facebook status so on the final chord of
the fray for a flat not turn I update my
facebook status it'll be the world's
first
sweep
you